---
layout: post
title: Concert on May 9th 2016
------------------------------
This will be on Monday 9th May at 8.00, when we have four lovely items. If you want a programme on the day, 
please [print it yourself](/assets/programmes/Programme_16.05.pdf), the few I bring are intended 
for any non-member audience who might show up.

Firstly, Lewis Lev and Keiko Thiele will be playing Moritz Moszkowski’s _Spanish dances for piano duet_; these are: 
Allegro brioso, Moderato, Con moto, Allegro comodo, and Bolero. Moszkowski (1854-1925) was a German-Jewish composer, 
pianist and violinist, well respected and popular in his day, admired by Paderewski and sometimes partnered by 
Liszt in piano duos. He was born in Breslau, studied piano at Dresden, taught at the Berlin Conservatory and 
was awarded honorary membership by London’s Royal Philharmonic Society. His output consists mainly of piano works,
 of which the Spanish Dances are among the best-known. No. 5 (Bolero) is played by a salon trio in a scene 
 from the film ‘Brief Encounter’.
 
Next we have the first of two items  played by Deni Teo, this time with Sarah Park (piano), 
the _Cello Sonata_ by Debussy (1862-1918). It was the first of a planned series of _'Six sonates
pour divers instruments'_, however Debussy only completed two others, the sonata for violin and 
the sonata for flute, viola and harp. The sonata for cello and piano was written in 1915, and 
is notable for its brevity and also for its technical challenge to the player. It is a staple 
of the modern cello repertoire and is commonly regarded as one of the finest masterpieces
written for the instrument. All three movements are reflective and quasi-Baroque, evoking 
the spirit of  French keyboard composers such as Couperin. Virtually nothing connects 
this piece to the 19th-century romantic sonata; even the relationship to sonata/allegro
form is marginal. It is divided into three short movements:  I. _Prologue: Lent, sostenuto e molto risoluto_, 
(The composer originally intended to call this movement _"Pierrot fâché avec la lune"_ ("Pierrot angry at the moon"), 
II. _Sérénade: Modérément animé_, III. _Finale: Animé, léger et nerveux._
 
The third item is contributed by the Lyrica Ensemble - Jill Davis & Julia Harris (violins);
Ceri Fagg (viola); Peter Mazug (cello), and Lewis Lev (piano), who will play Mozart’s 
_Piano Concerto No.17 in G major, K453_,  arranged as a quintet. 
The original version was written in 1784 and is in three movements:
Allegro, Andante in C major, and Allegretto – Presto. According to the
date that the composer himself noted on the score, the concerto was completed on
April 12, 1784 and was probably premiered later the same month. The finale is a variation 
movement whose theme was sung by Mozart's starling. It appears the composer had been teaching the 
bird this theme while writing the concerto, and finally bought it from the pet shop in May. 
The starling’s effort, according to Mozart’s transcription, was recognisable but not quite accurate.

Deni Teo will return to the stage to play with Li Lin the _Finale: Allegro ma non troppo_, of the Elgar 
cello concerto Op.85. This concerto, Elgar’s last notable work, is now of course
a cornerstone of the solo cello repertoire. Elgar composed it in the aftermath of 
the First World War. In contrast with his earlier Violin Concerto, which is lyrical and passionate,
the Cello Concerto is for the most part contemplative and elegiac. The first performance was a debacle 
because Elgar and the performers had been deprived of adequate rehearsal time, and it did not have a second 
performance in London for more than a year. The work did not achieve wide popularity with the general 
public until the 1960s, when a recording by Jacqueline du Pré caught the public imagination and became 
a classical best-seller.  

This will be a superb finale to our concert – I hope you will come,
Yours,
Hilary
 
*P.S. A note from Malcolm Lewis after the March concert.*
The Rubbra work got me doing research. Members may be interested to know he composed most of his 11 symphonies 
whilst living in a house called Valley Cottage in the village of Speen a few miles from High Wycombe.
 He built a studio in his garden which overlooked the valley. Alot of hills and valleys in the Chilterns here. 
There is a house in Green Street, High Wycombe in which  Ivor Gurney stayed and composed some works.