---
layout: post
title: Our next members' concert on 11 April 
---
### General ###
If you're a member, you should have received the updated Member list in this month's email.
 
Our next concert is on Monday 11th April and it’s a bumper issue which we hope will attract a good audience of members. Before I get on with programme notes, I will give you the further notices now.
 
The following concert will be on 9th May, and will be organised by Lewis Lev, so please tell him as soon as possible if you think you will have an item to contribute. This month there were too many offers and one had to be bumped.
 
Secondly, we have a new member who is very keen to join in and has written as follows:
> Hello all, I have just joined, name is Malcolm and I play bassoon grade 8.  2nd bassoon in Wycombe Sinfonia. I live in High Wycombe, Bucks.I have various bassoon, piano works including Saint Seans bassoon sonata which I would love to try. Also I have Poulenc duo sonata for clarinet and bassoon and the Beethoven (allegedly) duos for clarinet and bassoon.Also happy to play in other combinations. Some nice trio works for oboe, clarinet, bassoon.See you don't have any horn members but I do have some wind quintets. I plan to come and listen the next concert 11th April.
> Sorry I live in flat so I cannot offer rehearsal space, but happy to travel.
Malcolm’s details are in the membership list.
 
Thirdly, we have an appeal for a volunteer from the management of the Ealing Festival.
> EALING MUSIC FESTIVAL seeks a Volunteer to help with the Administration of the Instrumental Section, which includes Strings, Wind and Brass and takes place on  3 Saturdays in May each year.   All enquiries to Patricia Gillett on 020 8997 2526.
> I will have with me further details of the job to give to anyone interested.
 
### Now for details of the April concert.
This will start with Sonata No.11 in F for two recorders and continuo by Giuseppe Sammartini (1693-1770). It was played at an ECMC concert some years ago but at that time with two violins. Sammartini’s career as a composer advanced when he was hired as the music master for the Prince of Wales, Frederick, and his wife Augusta. He worked for them and their children from 1736 until his death in 1750. His 12 sonatas op. 1 were dedicated to Frederick, and his 12 trios op. 3 to Augusta. Sammartini was clearly very attached to this family, writing everything from these successful collections to simple birthday tunes for the children. The set of 12 trio sonatas,  of which we are playing No.11 in F, was one of the first to be published in London. The movements are Adagio, Allegro, Largo and Presto, and the performers are Linda S and Hilary P (treble recorders), Kathryn W (cello continuo) and Chris M (keyboard).
 
This will be followed by the first (moderato) movement of the Grand Duo Concertante Op.57 No.3  for 2 violins by Charles Auguste de Beriot, played by Kate D & Richard A. Charles Auguste de Beriot  (1802 - 1870) was a pupil of the Italian violinist Viotti, Bériot became one of the most distinguished players of his time, the creator of the Franco-Belgian school of violin-playing that was so important in the 19th century. He spent much of his teaching career in Brussels, where he died in 1870. De Bériot composed a substantial quantity of violin music including ten concertos. Although these are now rarely heard, his pedagogical compositions are still of use for violin students.
 
 After this, Li LT and Lewis L will give us two great works for piano duet. Firstly, the Mozart Sonata no 2 for Piano Duet K358, which is in three movemenrts, Allegro, Adagio and Molto Presto. Mozart composed his Sonata for piano duet in B flat major, K. 358, in Salzburg some time in 1773 or 1774 for his sister Nannerl and himself to perform in Paris and Vienna. The Sonata is full of virtuoso fingerwork and lightly lyrical melodies, and its finale is especially brilliant. The work was published in 1783, and it remains a repertoire item for piano duet teams both professional and amateur.
 
The same team will also perform Schubert’s Grand Rondeau, which was composed in 1828 in response to a commission by the publisher Artaria. D. 951 (a.k.a. Op.107) is Schubert's final work for piano four hands, written five months before his death. Schubert demonstrated one last time the inspired greatness and heartfelt beauty of melodic gifts that have never been surpassed in the history of music. 
 
We next have Bohuslav Martinu’s First Sonata for Flute & Piano, H.306. This is in 3 movements: Allegro moderato, Adagio, and Allegro poco moderato and is played by our regular duo, Theresa C (flute), David S (piano). The work was composed in 1945 on the beaches of Cape Cod, for George Laurent who was the principal flute of the Boston Symphony orchestra from 1918 to 1952. The third movement holds special significance. The inspiration for the theme draws from Martinů’s experience nursing an injured bird back to health in Cape Cod. The rhythmic and intervallic motive was derived from the bird’s song.
 
The final item in the concert will be Edmund Rubbra’s Sonata No 2 for violin and piano, played by Rupert B (violin) and Chris C (piano).  The movements are: 1. Allegretto liberamente e scorrevole, 2. Lament: Lento e dolente, and  3. Allegro vivo e feroce.
Edmund Rubbra (1901-1986) was born in Northampton. He saw the confusion of the 20th century musical scene as a rift between those who accept the traditional concept of music as a gradual development over the centuries, and those who destroy existing traditions for ideological reasons. He aligned himself unashamedly with the former, never departing from a tonal style. His output includes 11 symphonies, concertos, much choral music, instrumental and chamber music, and songs. Rubbra’s music was frequently performed during his lifetime but his later works were less popular, which might have contributed to his neglect today. Rubbra’s second violin sonata, completed in 1932 and dedicated to his wife, was the composition that put him on the 'musical map'. It was taken up by Albert Sammonds, who recorded it for HMV. The first two movements are lyrical but the last is in complete contrast, resembling a wild Spanish dance.

Best wishes and happy playing,
Hilary
 
