---
layout: post
title: Our next members' concert on 14 March
---
### Programme Notes ###
Our next concert is on March 14th and features wind, strings and piano from Baroque to contemporary. Please note also that the April concert will be on Monday 11th, and will be organised by Andrew Lewandowski, let him know in good time if you expect to have something to offer.
 
We begin with the J.S. Bach Sonata for Flute and Harpsichord in G Minor, BWV 1020 played by Theresa C. and David S. (on the piano). There are 3 movements: Allegro, Adagio, Allegro. The date of composition is not known, in fact the earliest (18th century) copies of the work attribute it either to C.P.E. Bach or to the Bach family generally, and according to some sources it began life as a violin sonata. Only in the 19th century was it thought to be by J.S. Bach, and since then there has been a continuous debate, which seems mostly to have come down on the side of the son. (Anyone wishing to follow this up can find it in merciless detail in the “Bach Cantatas” website.)  But either way it is an elegant piece of late-Baroque chamber music.  The opening movement is built of vintage allegro stock. The entirety of the opening ritornello is given to the harpsichord as a solo; when the flute enters some bars later the music briefly takes on a more spacious form -- but soon the energetic ritornello creeps back in. The flute sings a melody that grows from many long-held tones in the Adagio second movement. The third movement is a strong-boned Allegro into which from time to time breaks a wonderfully peculiar repeated-note motif.
 
Naoko S. (clarinet) and Lowri N. (flute) with Zillah M. (piano) will continue the  concert with  “MI-A-OU” from the Dolly Suite, Op.56 by Gabriel Faure. This well-known Suite, originally written for piano four hands was written or revised between 1893 and 1896, to mark the birthdays and other events in the life of the daughter of the composer's mistress, who was known as Dolly.  Mi-a-ou was written for Dolly's second birthday in June 1894. The title does not refer to a pet cat, as is often supposed, but instead to Dolly's attempts to pronounce the name of her elder brother Raoul.
Their second item will be a Trio for Flute, Clarinet and Piano by Sean Michael Salamon. The three movements are: I. Prelude, II. Nocturne and III. Variations on 'Brâul' from Bartok’s Romanian Folk Dances. Born in 1992, Jean Michael Salamon is a young American, a graduate of the Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh USA, and the Royal Academy of Music. Considering his age, Salamon has an extraordinarily huge back catalogue, ranging from choral to solo trombone.  This was the first piece of music that the composer ever completed, written when he was only 16, but has been performed quite widely since then across the United States and twelve different countries. He describes the piece as optimistic and self-assured (given its time of writing), and says that as such it should be performed with ‘exuberance and joy’. (It will be for the audience to judge whether it is as good as Mendelssohn’s Octet which was written at the same age.)
 
Next we have the last two movements (Minuet & Trio and Rondo Allegro) of  Mozart’s Divertimento in E flat K. 563, played by Julia H. (violin), Hilary P. (viola) and Lizbet F. (cello). It was written in 1788,  the year in which he completed his last three symphonies, and was premiered in April 1789 with Mozart playing the viola part. He dedicated the work to his fellow mason Puchberg, from whom he was desperate to borrow money. It is the only Divertimento in this six-movement format which Mozart completed in his mature years. One critic comments that "it is a true chamber-music work, because it was intended to offer something special in the way of art, invention, and good spirits. Each instrument is primus inter pares, every note is significant, every note is a contribution to spiritual and sensuous fulfillment in sound."  The Menuetto, in this case with two trios, is in Austrian Ländler style, and the Allegro is closely related to Mozart’s song “Komm, lieber Mai” (Come, month of May) and to the last movement of the Piano Concerto No. 27. The simple melody undergoes some rather bold transformations, but it all ends gently.
 
 The third offering is the Dvorak Quintet no 2 in A op 81, of which we will hear Movement 1,  (Allegro ma non tanto) and Movement 3 (Furiant. Molto vivace - tranquillo - tempo 1). It was composed in 1887, originally as an attempt to revise an earlier work, the Piano Quintet in A major, Op. 5. and was premiered in Prague on January 6, 1888. The quintet is acknowledged as one of the masterpieces in the form, along with those of Schubert, Schumann, Brahms and Shostakovich. All the elements of Dvorak's late style are here. It is extremely melodic. many of the tunes are in the manner of Czeck folksong, although almost certainly of Dvorak's original composition.  The Furiant, a furious dance in triple time edging into one in a bar, has its lullaby like central section. The use of the piano enables the whole process of dramatic opposition, often leading, sometimes being independent of the string quartet, sometimes accompanying and often contrapuntally intertwined with the strings. A novel element of Dvorak's style is the use in many places of contrapuntal textures using simultaneous beat subdivisions of 3, 4 and 5 in the various instruments.. The result is a composition of a wide and rich tapestry of moods. This is Dvorak at his tuneful, lyrical best.
Lewis L. (piano) is joined by Jill D. and Julia H. (violins), Ceri F. (viola), and Peter M. (cello).
 
### Welcome to two new members 
One new member for Clarinet, and one for Cello. You will find their details in the updated Member list attached to this month's email.

Happy music-making,
Hilary
