---
layout: post
title: Next Members' Concert on 13th June 
---

Firstly, in our occasional series of new or newish pianists introducing themselves to the Club,
we have Catherine H performing the _Rondo all’Ungherese, Op.107 No.6_, by Johann
Hummel. Hummel (1778-1837) was one of those infant prodigies turned composer who knew
everybody, was taught (free!) by Mozart and praised by Haydn, was a friend of Beethoven
and performed at his funeral; Schubert dedicated three piano sonatas to him. He took
Haydn’s place as Kapellmeister to Prince Esterhazy when Haydn retired, but out of repect did
not assume the actual title until the old man died. Although Hummel died famous, with a
lasting posthumous reputation apparently secure, his music was quickly forgotten at the
onrush of the Romantic period and has only recently been re-evaluated. His main works were
for the piano, of which this Rondo is a splendid example.

Next we have two items for two pianos performed by Li-Lin T and Lewis L, _Scara-
mouche_ by Darius Milhaud and _Variations on a theme of Paganini_ by Witold Lutosławski. 
Darius Milhaud (1892 – 1974) was a member of `Les Six’ and one of the most prolific
composers of the 20th century. His compositions are influenced by jazz and make use of
polytonality. Along with _“Le boeuf sur la toit,” Scaramouche__, written in 1937, is probably one
of his most famous works and is in three movements, _Vif_, _Modéré_ and _Brazileira_.  The
character Scaramouche was a "wily servant" in the Commedia del Arte.

Witold Roman Lutosławski (1913 – 1994) was one of the preeminent Polish musicians during
his last three decades. His early works were influenced by Polish folk music, but he began
developing his own characteristic composition techniques in the late 1950s. The Variations
are based on the theme from Paganini’s Caprice No.24, which had previously also been used
by many composers, including Brahms and, most notably, Rachmaninoff, and had become a
standard musical launchpad rather like the “Dies Irae” tune. The piece was written in 1941
and played by the composer with André Panufnic, at a time when orchestral performances
of their works were scarcely possible. The Polish composer cooks the same meal as Paganini
but adds a pinch of spice to each course, transforming the plain harmonies into piquant,
exotic flavours. It presents a dizzy dialogue of antiphony as snapping rhythms and pianistic
glitter are tossed from one keyboard to the other.

Next we have two works for bassoon played by Malcolm L with John H at the
piano. The first is the _Romance for bassoon and orchestra Op. 62_ by Edward Elgar (1857 –
1934) in his own piano reduction. Elgar taught himself to play the bassoon so he could play
in a wind quintet (2 flutes, oboe, clarinet and bassoon) with friends, and he wrote several
works for this quintet during 1878 and 1879. The Romance, written between late 1909 and
early 1910 in the period between writing his violin concerto and his 2nd symphony, was
dedicated to the principle bassoonist in the LSO Edwin F. James. A diary entry by his wife
Alice for 11th January, 1910 reads, “E very busy with concerto and bassoon piece”. It is a
single movement work in D minor; Andante is the tempo marking but Elgar allows much
poetic licence with pauses and tempo adjustments. The slow reflective mood is similar to the
slow movement of the violin concerto and superbly demonstrates the bassoon as a lyrical
instrument, not just the jovial clown.

The other bassoon item is the _Cello Sonata No.6 by Vivaldi_ (1678 –1741), reworked by Niso
Ticciati. Vivaldi wrote 6 cello sonatas between 1720 and 1730, probably for pupils at the
Conservatoire dell' Ospedale della Pieta, Venice where he taught. Niso Ticciati re-worked
Sonatas 5 and 6 for performance by William Pleeth (teacher to Jacqueline du Pre) and
Margaret Good, the original harpsichord being replaced with a modern piano with a specially
written part, such that the piano has equal prominence to the cello. (Ticciati has by the way an
Ealing connection, he lived on Gordon Road and was conductor of the Ealing Symphony
Orchestra about 1968-71.) The three movements being played are 1) Largo Overro
Andante, 2) Allegro and 4) Allegro. (Does anyone know what “Overro” means?)
Malcolm L, like Elgar, taught himself the bassoon. Malcolm switched from clarinet when
the bassoon chair in Aylesbury Concert Band became vacant and a band instrument was
available, about 10 years ago. He makes no apologies for playing the re-worked cello sonata
No. 6 on bassoon, his choice was decided after he found the set of parts in the Oxfam
bookshop in Marlow.

Finally, we have two movements of the _Piano Quartet in A major, Op.26_ by Johannes Brahms
(1833 – 1897), 1st movement _Allegro non troppo_ and 3rd movement _Scherzo: Poco Allegro_,
played by the regular combination of Jill D (violin), Ceri F (viola), Peter M (cello)
and Lewis L (piano). Clara Schumann played a major rôle in the life and career of
Johannes Brahms, as his muse, his unrequited love and his most constructive critic. She was
closely associated with his three Piano Quartets. The C minor, Op. 60, first to be started and
last to be finished, was connected with the tragic time when Robert Schumann died and
Brahms realised he was in love with Clara; the G minor, Op. 25, was given its première by
Clara; and her favourite, the A major, Op. 26, was a lyrical, feminine answer to the dramatic,
masculine G minor. Brahms worked on these two quartets from 1857, completing the G minor
by November 1861 and the A major the following year. On 29th November 1863, he gave the
first performance of the A major Quartet with the same string players, members of the
Hellmesberger Quartet. Both were published in 1863. The A major may be the gentlest of the
three piano quartets but it is also the most expansive, and its first movement has a quiet
grandeur which is only partially offset by the second subject. The large-scale scherzo, with its
canonic trio, displays Brahms’s deep knowledge of Bach’s music.

Remember to print a [programme](/assets/programmes/Programme_16.06.pdf)