---
layout: post
title: Our members' concert on 12th June 2017
---
Dear Member,


My apologies, it turns out we do have a June 12th concert after all, 
and it will be a fine one. Please remember to download and print your own 
programme, which is available for download [here](/assets/programmes/Programme_17.06.pdf).

But first a reminder to let Liz Sharma know if you are intending to 
join in the 10th July Play-in, especially if you are a wind player, so 
that she can create extra parts if necessary. I believe the first half 
of the programme is now full, with a recorder ensemble and some more 
Rubbra Sonata from Chris and Rupert.

Toby Louw is now back from his travels and is updating the website, but 
is still hoping that someone nearer home will take it over. If you think 
this might be you, Toby could explain what is involved. 
 
Our June concert  features once more our favourite cellist Deni Teo, with 
Sarah Park at the piano. They will start with the Beethoven’s 4th cello 
sonata op. 102 no. 1 in C major
  1) andante - allegro vivace and 
  2) adagio - allegro vivace

The sonatas No 4 and 5 were composed between the end of 1812 and 1817, 
during which time Beethoven, ailing and overcome by all sorts of difficulties, 
experienced a period of literal and figurative silence as his deafness became 
overwhelmingly profound and his productivity diminished.  The complexity of 
their composition and their visionary character marks the start of Beethoven’s 
'third period'.

The overall structure of No.4 is possibly unique in Beethoven's works, 
comprising just a pair of fast sonata-form movements, each with a slow 
introduction, so although this might not seem obvious, we are in fact getting 
the whole work.
 
They will follow this with the Shostakovich cello sonata op. 40 composed 
in 1934, of which we heard the first  movement in May. This month they play the 
other three movements, which are: 
  2) allegro, 
  3) Largo and 
  4) allegro.
  
The second movement has a perpetual motion energy, its thrusting repeated 
ostinato pattern relentlessly shared while a delicate first theme – almost 
incongruous – is presented by piano in widely spaced octaves, a sonority 
often used by Shostakovich.. Piquant wit abounds in familiar classical gestures 
set askew, sudden lurches into unrelated keys, until the initial driving 
ostinato resumes, leading to a sudden conclusion.

The bleak expanses of Russia are evoked in the soulful slow movement, the 
piano providing a dark backdrop for the cello’s rhapsodic, vocal theme.
Caustic wit colours the brief yet ebullient finale, a type of rondo in 
which the main playful theme appears three times, imitated by both instruments, 
interspersed by episodes full of sparking scales.

To complete the concert we have a string quartet - Saori Howse, Graham 
Ritchie, Catherine Barlen and Paul Robinson, -  who  will play the third 
movement, Allegro molto, of the Elgar Quartet in E minor Op.83. This quartet 
originated from a request for a work by Carl Fuchs, cellist of 
the Brodsky Quartet back in February 1900. Nothing happened until in 1917, 
Elgar was ill and depressed by war-time London and recalled his promise. 
He began work on the String Quartet on 25 March 1918, while recovering 
from having his tonsils removed, and finished only the first subject of the 
first movement at that time. Distracted by two other works, he only returned 
to the quartet in October, and just finished it by Christmas. The Quartet 
was first performed privately at Elgar's London home in January 1919, with 
George Bernard Shaw present, among others. 

The Quartet was dedicated to the Brodsky Quartet, however, the members of 
the Brodsky Quartet were now around 70 years of age, which seems to have 
been considered rather old at the time. In any case, the public premiere 
was given by another quartet in May 1919. 

Best wishes,
Hilary
