---
layout: post
title: Our members' concert on 8th May 2017
---
Dear ECMC Member or Friend,

Our next concert is going to be a fascinating mixed bag and we hope to 
see more members there.

But first – could anyone take over the website for the time being?
 
Now for the concert on 8th May. Do bring your own programme, which is available 
for download [here](/assets/programmes/Programme_17.05.pdf).
                                
To start with, Liz Sharma, our resident composer and actually by far the 
most frequently performed composer in the Club, plays one of her most 
recent works.  “Play it again” was commissioned by her publisher in March 
this year as a set of three short pieces based on dance rhythms, originally 
for two oboes.  At Hilary’s request she arranged it for the narrower compass 
of two recorders, treble and tenor. The three items are 
  1. Repeat after me, 
  2. To Tango and 
  3. Samba.
 
Next we have two instruments new to the Club, and mandolin and the mandola.  
Stuart McGowan and John Maw present a sequence of eight duets, the first 
six of which have been arranged by Stuart.  These are:
  * Brasileirinho by Waldyr Azevedo, (b.1923)
  * Calabrisella Mia, trad Italian,

The next four are from a Mexican collection called “Danzones Yucatecos.”
* A mi Blance by M.Mendez C, 
* A mi Negra by M.Mendez C,   
* Holda by J. M. Vargas,       
* La Union by J. M. Vargas,     
* El Morenito from Suite Venezolano by by Jose A. Zambrano (b. 1965)
* Duetto V by Antonio Riggieri. (fl.1780)

The Mandolin has a long and venerable history as a plucked string 
counterpart to the violin, being tuned the same, but double-strung, and 
played with a plectrum. The mandola bears a similar resemblance to the viola, 
though some, like John's are tuned an octave lower than the mandolin.
Stuart McGowan and John Maw formed "Duo Diapason", a mandolin and mandola 
duo, when they met during meetings of the Plucked Ensemble Masterclass, 
coached by the distinguished mandolinist, Travis Finch. Stuart and John 
have performed together in the London Mandolin Ensemble and the London 
Mandolin Quartet and 'Duo Diapason' have given several independent recitals 
in the London area.
 
The third item is a rare treat from Deni Teo with Sarah Park, the first 
movement from the Shostakovich Cello Sonata Op.40.  This was one of 
Dmitri Shostakovich's early works, composed in 1934 just prior to the 
censure by Soviet authorities of his music, notably the opera Lady Macbeth of 
Mtsensk, which was deemed too bourgeois and decadent for the Soviet people. 
It was also a period of emotional turmoil in his life, as he had fallen in 
love with a young student at a Leningrad festival featuring his Lady Macbeth. 
Their affair resulted in a brief divorce from his wife Nina, and it was in 
August, during their period of separation, that he wrote the cello sonata, 
completing it within a few weeks and giving its premiere in Moscow on 
25 December with his close friend, the cellist Viktor Kubatsky, who was 
also the piece's dedicatee. By the next autumn Shostakovich and Nina had 
remarried,
 
Finally, Li Lin Teo returns to complete the Rachmaninov Piano Concerto No. 2, 
with the 3rd Movement, Allegro scherzando.  This time the orchestra is 
represented by a piano duo, Deni Teo and Benjamin Mellefont. This mighty 
work needs no recommendation from me and will make a splendid conclusion  to 
the evening.

Do come, and bring your programme with you.

Hilary