---
layout: post
title: Our members' concert on 10th April 2017
---
Dear ECMC Member (or friend),
 
Our next concert is on April 10th and we would love to see you there. 
This will feature Andrew Lewandowski with Li Lin Teo in two little-known 
clarinet works, and two short violin works. Do bring your own programme, 
which is available for download [here](/assets/programmes/Programme_17.04.pdf).
 
The first is a clarinet and piano sonata by Jean Xavier Lefevre (1763-1829). 
He started his musical career as a clarinettist  in the French Guards band 
and joined the National Guard at the start of the Revolution, going on to 
conduct the band and later becoming one of the first professors at the Paris 
Conservatoire. He contributed to the development of the 6 key clarinet, and 
wrote several methods for the instrument. This is the third of five Sonatas 
included in his clarinet method of 1802, and the three movements are: 
  1.  Allegro moderato, 
  2.  Andante and 
  3.  Allegro.
 
Next we have two violin and piano items performed by Saori Howse and Li Lin. 
The first is “Nigun”, the second of three sections of Ernst Bloch’s suite 
“Baal Shem – scenes of Chassidic life,” first performed in Cleveland in 1924. 
Typically the work takes its inspiration from his Jewish background, specifically 
the founder of modern Jewish mysticism founded by Baal Shem Tov in the 18th 
century, a movement  which placed great emphasis upon song, dance and ecstasy 
as channels for direct communication with God. The title refers to a  genre 
of songs composed by tzaddikim (holy men) ), the purpose of which is to 
transport both performer and listener to transcendental realms of spirituality, 
and set  to nonsense (or, more politely, non-semantic) syllables. Nigun has 
gained itself a place as a self-standing work.
 
Saori and Li Lin will then play “Après un rêve” by Gabriel Fauré (1845-1924) 
This is the first of a set of mélodies for solo voice and piano, one of 
Faure's most popular vocal pieces, and is a dream of romantic flight with 
a lover, away from the earth, and has been performed by numerous singers and 
in settings for various instruments. The other two in the set were  "Hymne" 
and "Barcarolle". The songs were written between 1870 and 1877, and published 
in 1878. They were not, however, originally conceived together as a set of 
three; the opus number 7 was imposed on them retrospectively in the 1890s, 
almost 20 years after their first publication.
 
Andrew will then join them for a rare work by Richard Walthew which is a 
trio for Violin, Clarinet and Piano in C minor, written in 1896.  Richard 
Henry Walthew (1872-1951) was born in Islington and was a pupil of Parry 
at the R.C.M. Walthew had a natural affinity for chamber music and a long 
association with the South Place Sunday Concert series for which he wrote 
programme notes. He conducted the orchestra there and it was also where much 
of his chamber music was played. The movements are: 
  1. Allegro no troppo e poco maestoso, 
  2. Andante non tropp,
  3. Poco Allegretto, 
  4. Allegreto Simplice (Theme and Variations), and 
  5. L' Envoi.

MAY CONCERT
-----------
The following concert will be on Monday May 8th 2017, and the Organiser is 
John Heffernan. If you intend to contribute an item, please contact him.
 
You might be interested in a concert coming up at the other St Mary’s church 
(in St Mary’s Road W5) called “East meets West” – the cellist  Ruth Henley 
with pianist  Ilya Chetverikov play Russian and English works.  This will 
be on Saturday May 6th at 7.30 pm.
 
All the best,
Hilary